# User Defined Functions API version 1

## types

    type Value interface {
            String() string
            MarshalJSON() ([]byte, error)
            Actual() interface{}
            ToString() string
            Truth() bool
            Recycle()
            Track()
    }

    type Context interface {
            NewValue(val interface{}) interface{}
            CopyValue(val interface{}) interface{}
            StoreValue(key string, val interface{})
            RetrieveValue(key string) interface{}
            ReleaseValue(key string)
            CompareValues(val1, val2 interface{}) (int, bool)
            ExecuteStatement(statement string, namedArgs map[string]interface{}, positionalArgs []interface{}) (interface{}, uint64, error)
            OpenStatement(statement string, namedArgs map[string]interface{}, positionalArgs []interface{}) (interface{}, error)
            Log(fmt string, args ...interface{})
            NestingLevel() int
    }

    type Handle {
            Type() string
            Results() (interface{}, uint64, error)
            NextDocument() (interface{}, error)
            Cancel()
    }

### type `Value`

Type value represents a value, for example a datastore document, or an expression computed from a document field.

It implements a stringer and a json Marshaller.

#### method `Actual()`

`Actual()` returns the actual value of the `Value`, transforming it from its internal representation to the Go equivalent.

#### method `ToString()`

`ToString()` is a fast stringer, the major differences with `String()` is that special json characters are not escaped.

#### method `Truth()`

True if the `Value` evaluates to true (eg a boolean true, or an integer != 0).

#### methods `Track()` and `Recycle()`

`Track()` increments and `Recycle()` decrements the value's internal reference counter.

A `Value` is disposed of by the Query engine once is no longer referenced by the request.

Should the `Value` be used across User Defined invocations, either as part of the same request, or even multiple requests, its reference counter
should be increased with `Track()` so that the Query engine does not prematurely dispose of it.

When the `Value` is no longer needed, the reference count should be decreased using `Recycle()`.

`Track()` and `Recycle()` can be used recursively, the only important thing being that each `Track()` is matched with a `Recycle()`:
should there be more `Track()` calls, the value will never be freed, and it will leak, while more `Recycle()` calls will lead to it
being freed prematurely, risking aborts.

### type `Context`

#### method `NewValue()`

`NewValue()` takes it an argument of any type and transforms it into the corresponding internal format used by the N1QL service.

This is pretty much necessary, for instance, to return a computed result to the Query service.

#### method `CopyValue()`

Takes a `Value` and makes a copy of it, deep if necessary.

If the argument passed is not a `Value`, it returns nil.

#### method `StoreValue()`

Stores a value in the `Context` for later retrieval with `RetrieveValue()`

#### method `RetrieveValue()`

Retrieves a previously stored value, or nil if not found.

#### method `ReleaseValue()`

Removes a value from the `Context` value storage.

#### method `CompareValues()`

Compares two values.

The integer results is <0, 0 or >0, depending if the first value is lesser, equal or greater than the second.

The boolean value is true if the input values are not of type `Value`, or if either is NULL or MISSING.

#### method `ExecuteStatement()`

`ExecuteStatement()` takes a N1QL statement, a list of named parameters and a list of positional parameters, executes it, and
returns any documents produced, a mutation count, and any error.

The documents are returned in the form of a `Value`, most likely as a slice of values.

#### method `OpenStatement()`

`OpenStatement()` is the streaming equivalent of `ExecuteStatement()`, except that it returns a `Handle` to a statement interator, rather than a set of
results.

#### method `Log()`

Logs a list of arguments formatted according to the format string.

#### method `NestingLevel()`

Returns the depth of external UDFs executing N1QL statements calling external UDFs...

It is currently only implemented for Javascript.

The initial level (a N1QL statement executing a UDF) is 1.

### type `Handle`

#### method `Type()`

Returns a string the type of the statement being executed (eg "SELECT").

If the statement is an EXECUTE statement, it returns the type of the underlying prepared statement.

#### method `Results()`

Executes the statement linked to the `Handle`, producing all the results in an `interface{}` and the mutation count in a `uint64`.

Execution can be stopped using the `Cancel()` method, but this can only be done by a separate thread.

#### method `NextDocument()`

Retrieves the next document from the statement being executed via the `Handle`.

The statement doesn't have any more results to return when the first return value is nil.

The error is non nil if at any time the statement has returned an error.

Statements that don't return values and succeed, such as DML, return `nil, nil`

Since no mutation count is returned, DML that doesn't return values is best executed using `Results()` or `ExecuteStatement()`.

#### method `Cancel()`

Stops the execution of an open statement.

Must be called from a different thread to cancel a statement that is producing all the results through the `Results()` method.

Only required if not processing all the results through `NextDocument()`: in this case it must be called before the user defined function returns,
or N1QL statements will be leaked.

## functions

    func Args(args interface{}, context interface{}) (Value, Context, error)

### func `Args()`

A simple utility function that takes the interface{} arguments to the User Defined Function using it and casts them to a `Value` and a `Context`,
returning eny errors.
